PyEphem version 0.9
25 July 1998

INTRODUCTION ------------

The PyEphem module offers a library of astronomical computation
routines accessible from the Python scripting language.  It was
written and is maintained by Brandon Craig Rhodes, whose contact
information is:

	brandon@rhodesmill.org
	http://www.rhodesmill.org/brandon/

The computation routines themselves were extracted from the XEphem
program of Elwood Charles Downey (ecdowney@ClearSkyInstitute.com); the
program is housed at http://iraf.noao.edu/~ecdowney/xephem.html.


COPYRIGHT ------------

Note that Elwood Charles Downey is the author of the routines in the
libastro directory, which are part of his XEphem program; their
copyright appears in the file `pyephem/libastro/Copyright'.  The
libastro library appears in the PyEphem distribution with his
permission.  Only the source files in the main `pyephem' directory
itself (which amount to about one-twentieth the size of Elwood's) are
my own; they are licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License.


BUILDING AND INSTALLING ------------

To compile (but not to use) PyEphem requires:

	SWIG, which may be obtained at http://www.swig.org/.
	GNU m4
	C compiler and linker

The options provided to the linker successfully produce a shared
library under Red Hat Linux; for different operating systems you
may have to alter its options in the makefile.

To make PyEphem:

	Go into the `libastro' directory
	Type `make'

This will produce a Python module in two pieces, `ephem.py' and
`ephemcmodule.so'.  It will also produce documentation, in a file
called `pyephem.html'.

To install PyEphem:

	Check the PYTHON variable in the makefile
	Type `make install'


TESTING ------------

In the tests directory there is currently a single test program, which
determines the locations of six kinds of object on a given date, and
compares the result with those given by the XEphem program itself.

Remember to set PYTHONPATH to point to the directory that contains the
`ephem.py' and `ephemcmodule.so' files if you have not yet (or cannot)
install them in the default Python directories.


CONTRIBUTING ------------

If you write useful scripts with PyEphem, please consider contributing
them to the `examples/' directory.  In particular users would probably
be interested in algorithms that search for various celestial
circumstances like eclipses or conjunctions; not needing such routines
myself, however, I have not endeavored to produce any.
